# Cadence-Virtuoso-VCSV-Parser
VCSV Parser to import Cadence Virtuoso simulation data in Python

THIS IS AN INTERNAL, HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL ALPHA VERSION. Functionality is limited, with multiple caveats, and not guaranteed to work. Use at your own risk.
This is a work in progress, and I will be adding more features and fixing bugs as I go along. If you have any suggestions or find any bugs, please let me know.
This is a Python script to parse Cadence Virtuoso VCSV files and convert them into a Pandas DataFrame for easy manipulation and analysis. The script is designed to handle the specific format of VCSV files generated by Cadence Virtuoso simulations.
The script is not intended to be a general-purpose VCSV parser, and may not work with all VCSV files. It is designed to work with the specific format of VCSV files generated by Cadence Virtuoso simulations.

## Preparing your data
To use this script, you need to have a VCSV file generated by Cadence Virtuoso simulations. The script is designed to handle the specific format of VCSV files generated by Cadence Virtuoso simulations. If your VCSV file is not in this format, the script may not work as expected.

To export multiple signals from a single simulation run, select all the signals you want to export in the Cadence Virtuoso waveform viewer, right-click, and select "Send to" -> "Export". In the window that opens, select "VCSV" as the format and choose a location to save the file. Currently, the script only supports one shared x-axis for all signals. To make sure it runs properly, check "Only Save Subset of Data" and input the range you want to save, and "Resample with Step Size" and choose an appropriate step size. The script will not work with VCSV files that have multiple x-axes or that are not in the correct format.

To export simulations from a parameter sweep, this script currently only supports reading data from one signal (one "Output" in Cadence Virtuoso). To read multiple outputs, you will need to export multiple VCSV files. Before exporting, rename the signal in the Cadence Virtuoso waveform viewer to something meaningful that does not contain special characters. To do so, right-click on the signal, slect "Trace group properties", unckeck "Default" next to the name textbox and input a new name. Then, you can export the VCSV file as described above.

## How to use the script
1. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install pandas numpy
   ```
2. Install the package using pip, _e.g._:
   ```bash
   pip install git+https://github.com/LorisMendolia/Cadence-Virtuoso-VCSV-Parser.git
   ```
3. Import the `vcsvparser` function from the package:
	```python
	from vcsv_parser import vcsvparser
	```
4. Call the `vcsvparser` function with the path to the VCSV file as an argument:
	```python
	metadata, data = vcsvparser('path/to/your/file.vcsv')
	```
5. The function will return a dictionary containing the metadata and a Pandas DataFrame containing the data. The DataFrame will have a different format depending on the type of data in the VCSV file. If the data contains multiple signals from a single simulation, every column will contain a different signal and the index will be the x-axis values. If the data contains multiple simulations from parameter sweeps, the DataFrame will contain a multi-index where each index corresponds to a different parameter, and each column will contain signal data for each x-axis value.
